site/src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Give your AI agent memory
description: A lightweight methodology that turns documentation into persistent context for AI coding assistants.
template: splash
head: []
hero:
  tagline: Documentation as persistent memory for AI coding assistants
  actions:
    - text: Get Started
      link: /quick-start/
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: View Templates
      link: /templates/
      variant: minimal
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## What Is This?

**AI-First Dev Kit** is a lightweight methodology that turns your project documentation into persistent context for AI coding assistants.

Instead of re-explaining your project every session, you write docs once — and AI reads them automatically.

| Pillar | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| 📋 **Specs** | What to build — PRD-lite specs define requirements before coding |
| 📜 **Rules** | How to build — Pattern files that guide AI behavior automatically |
| 📚 **Reference** | What exists — AGENTS.md and feature docs preserve decisions |

---

## Who Is This For?

Developers using AI coding assistants who want:

- **Consistent output** — AI that follows YOUR patterns, not generic ones
- **Less repetition** — Stop re-explaining architecture every session
- **Better collaboration** — AI that respects past decisions

Works with any AI tool: Cursor, Claude Code, GitHub Copilot, or any LLM.

---

## The Problem

AI coding assistants have a memory problem:

- **No Memory** — Every conversation starts from zero. You explain the same things repeatedly.
- **Generic Code** — Without project context, AI generates boilerplate that doesn't fit your style.
- **Contradictory Advice** — Unaware of past decisions, AI suggests conflicting patterns.

---

## Why Documentation?

**Documentation is the only persistent context AI can access.**

| Without This Kit | With This Kit |
|------------------|---------------|
| Re-explain patterns every session | AI reads rules automatically |
| Generic suggestions | Suggestions match your stack |
| Conflicting recommendations | Decisions preserved in ADRs |
| Forgotten requirements | Specs define acceptance criteria |

> "Documentation as AI memory" — encode your patterns once, every session follows them.

---

## Quick Start

Copy this prompt to your AI assistant:

```
Apply the AI-First Dev Kit methodology from https://ai-first-dev-kit.github.io to this project.

Read the quick-start guide and set up the required structure.
```

Your AI will read the methodology, analyze your project, and create customized files.

<LinkCard
  title="5-Minute Setup Guide"
  description="Step-by-step instructions to get started"
  href="/quick-start/"
/>

---

## Tool Agnostic

| Tool | Configuration |
|------|---------------|
| **Cursor** | `.cursor/rules/*.mdc` |
| **Claude Code** | `CLAUDE.md` |
| **GitHub Copilot** | `.github/copilot-instructions.md` |
| **Any LLM** | Standard Markdown files |

Commit message:

Refactor and rename AI-First Development Kit to AI Context Docs Lifecycle
- Updated METHODOLOGY.md and README.md to reflect the new name and emphasize the document lifecycle methodology for AI-assisted software development.
- Revised folder structure and file paths in documentation to enhance clarity and usability.
- Introduced new templates and examples for various documentation types, including ADRs, user stories, and feature specifications.
- Improved guides for setting up the methodology in both new and existing projects, ensuring a seamless integration process.
- Updated site configuration and links to point to the new repository and live site.

site/src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Give your AI agent memory
description: A lightweight methodology that turns documentation into persistent context for AI coding assistants.
template: splash
head: []
hero:
  tagline: Documentation as persistent memory for AI coding assistants
  actions:
    - text: Get Started
      link: /quick-start/
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: View Templates
      link: /templates/
      variant: minimal
---

import { LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## What Is This?

**AI Context Docs Lifecycle** is a document lifecycle methodology that turns your project documentation into persistent context for AI coding assistants.

Instead of re-explaining your project every session, you write docs once — and AI reads them automatically.

| Pillar | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| 📋 **Specs** | What to build — PRD-lite specs define requirements before coding |
| 📜 **Rules** | How to build — Pattern files that guide AI behavior automatically |
| 📚 **Reference** | What exists — AGENTS.md and feature docs preserve decisions |

---

## Who Is This For?

Developers using AI coding assistants who want:

- **Consistent output** — AI that follows YOUR patterns, not generic ones
- **Less repetition** — Stop re-explaining architecture every session
- **Better collaboration** — AI that respects past decisions

Works with any AI tool: Cursor, Claude Code, GitHub Copilot, or any LLM.

---

## The Problem

AI coding assistants have a memory problem:

- **No Memory** — Every conversation starts from zero. You explain the same things repeatedly.
- **Generic Code** — Without project context, AI generates boilerplate that doesn't fit your style.
- **Contradictory Advice** — Unaware of past decisions, AI suggests conflicting patterns.

---

## Why Documentation?

**Documentation is the only persistent context AI can access.**

| Without This Kit | With This Kit |
|------------------|---------------|
| Re-explain patterns every session | AI reads rules automatically |
| Generic suggestions | Suggestions match your stack |
| Conflicting recommendations | Decisions preserved in ADRs |
| Forgotten requirements | Specs define acceptance criteria |

> "Documentation as AI memory" — encode your patterns once, every session follows them.

---

## Quick Start

Copy this prompt to your AI assistant:

```
Apply the AI Context Docs Lifecycle methodology from https://sergiusavva.github.io/ai-context-docs-lifecycle to this project.

Read the quick-start guide and set up the required structure.
```

Your AI will read the methodology, analyze your project, and create customized files.

<LinkCard
  title="5-Minute Setup Guide"
  description="Step-by-step instructions to get started"
  href="/quick-start/"
/>

---

## Tool Agnostic

| Tool | Configuration |
|------|---------------|
| **Cursor** | `.cursor/rules/*.mdc` |
| **Claude Code** | `CLAUDE.md` |
| **GitHub Copilot** | `.github/copilot-instructions.md` |
| **Any LLM** | Standard Markdown files |
