site/src/content/docs/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Set up AI-First Dev Kit in 5 minutes with help from your AI assistant
head: []
---

Let your AI agent set up the methodology for you. Works with Cursor, Claude Code, or any AI assistant.

## Step 1: Copy the Setup Prompt

Open your AI coding assistant and paste this:

```
Set up AI-First Dev Kit for this project:

1. Create folders: .cursor/rules, docs/specs/_archive, docs/features, docs/decisions
2. Create AGENTS.md with: quick start commands, tech stack table, file organization
3. Create .cursor/rules/00-index.mdc with empty rules table
4. Create docs/INDEX.md, docs/TASKS.md

Use actual values from package.json and the codebase - no placeholders.

Reference: https://ai-first-dev-kit.github.io/templates/agents-md/
```

That's it! Your AI will analyze your project and create the files with real values.

## Step 2: What AI Should Discover

Before generating files, AI should find these in your project:

| Look For | Where | Use In |
|----------|-------|--------|
| Project type | `packages/`, `apps/`, `services/`, workspace configs | Structure decision |
| Install/run commands | `package.json` scripts, `Makefile` | Quick Start section |
| Dependencies | `package.json`, `requirements.txt` | Tech Stack table |
| Code structure | `src/`, `app/`, `lib/` folders | File Organization |
| Test framework | `jest.config`, `pytest.ini`, test files | Testing rules |
| Existing patterns | Repeated code structures | Key Patterns section |

### Monorepo Detection

| Marker | Project Type |
|--------|--------------|
| `packages/` or `apps/` folder | Package monorepo |
| `pnpm-workspace.yaml`, `turbo.json`, `nx.json`, `lerna.json` | Package monorepo |
| `services/` folder | Service monorepo |
| `docker-compose.yml` with multiple services | Service monorepo |
| None of above | Single app |

## Step 3: Verify Setup

After AI completes, check these files exist and contain **real values**:

### Single App Structure

```
your-project/
├── AGENTS.md                    # ✅ Has actual tech stack, real commands
├── .cursor/rules/
│   └── 00-index.mdc            # ✅ Lists rules for YOUR stack
└── docs/
    ├── INDEX.md                # ✅ Links to YOUR docs
    ├── TASKS.md                # ✅ Ready for tasks
    ├── specs/                  # ✅ For future specs
    ├── features/               # ✅ For feature docs
    └── decisions/              # ✅ For ADRs
```

### Monorepo Structure (Package or Service)

```
your-monorepo/
├── AGENTS.md                    # ✅ Root overview, links to all packages
├── .cursor/rules/
│   └── 00-index.mdc            # ✅ Shared rules for all packages
├── packages/                    # or services/
│   ├── web/
│   │   └── AGENTS.md           # ✅ Web-specific context
│   └── api/
│       └── AGENTS.md           # ✅ API-specific context
└── docs/
    ├── INDEX.md                # ✅ Links to all docs
    ├── TASKS.md                # ✅ Tracks work across packages
    ├── specs/
    ├── features/
    └── decisions/
```

### Quick Verification

Ask your AI:
```
Verify the AI-First Dev Kit setup:
1. Does AGENTS.md contain real project commands that work?
2. Does the Tech Stack table reflect actual dependencies?
3. Are the Key Patterns based on actual code in this repo?
4. (For monorepos) Does each package/service have its own AGENTS.md?
```

## Step 4: Start Building

Setup complete! Now use the [Development Workflow](/workflow/) for day-to-day prompts:

- **Before building** — Create specs and feature docs
- **While building** — AI follows your rules automatically
- **After completing** — Archive specs, update docs

→ [View full workflow prompts](/workflow/)

---

## If AI Can't Fetch URLs

Some AI assistants can't access web content. Use this alternative:

```
Apply the AI-First Dev Kit methodology to this project.
I'll provide the reference content below.

First, analyze this project's tech stack and patterns.
Then create the structure based on what I paste.
```

Then paste the relevant sections from:
- [Methodology](/methodology/) — core concepts
- [Project Structure](/templates/project-structure/) — folder layout
- [AGENTS.md Template](/templates/agents-md/) — root context format
- [Cursor Rules](/templates/cursor-rules/) — rule file format

---

## Common Prompts for Daily Use

Once set up, use these prompts for day-to-day development:

| Task | Prompt |
|------|--------|
| **New feature** | "Create PRD-lite spec for [feature] in docs/specs/" |
| **Start building** | "Implement [feature] following docs/specs/[feature].md" |
| **Track progress** | "Update TASKS.md with current progress" |
| **Record decision** | "Create ADR for choosing [X] over [Y]" |
| **New pattern** | "Add rule for [pattern] to .cursor/rules/" |
| **Complete feature** | "Archive spec and update docs for [feature]" |

See the full [Prompt Library](/prompts/) for more.

---

## Alternative: Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

### Create folders

```bash
mkdir -p .cursor/rules
mkdir -p docs/specs/_archive
mkdir -p docs/features
mkdir -p docs/decisions
```

### Create AGENTS.md

```bash
touch AGENTS.md
```

Copy the template from [AGENTS.md template](/templates/agents-md/) and customize.

### Create rule index

```bash
touch .cursor/rules/00-index.mdc
```

Copy from [Cursor Rules template](/templates/cursor-rules/).

### Create docs index

```bash
touch docs/INDEX.md docs/TASKS.md
```

---

## New vs Existing Projects

| Scenario | Guide |
|----------|-------|
| Starting fresh | [New Project Guide](/guides/new-project/) |
| Adding to existing code | [Existing Project Guide](/guides/existing-project/) |

The key difference: for existing projects, document what IS, not what should be. Your rules should capture existing patterns, not impose new ones.

---

## Next Steps

- Follow the [Development Workflow](/workflow/) for day-to-day prompts
- Read the [full methodology](/methodology/) to understand the three pillars
- Browse [templates](/templates/) to see all available files
- Check [guides](/guides/) for detailed walkthroughs

Commit message:

Refactor and rename AI-First Development Kit to AI Context Docs Lifecycle
- Updated METHODOLOGY.md and README.md to reflect the new name and emphasize the document lifecycle methodology for AI-assisted software development.
- Revised folder structure and file paths in documentation to enhance clarity and usability.
- Introduced new templates and examples for various documentation types, including ADRs, user stories, and feature specifications.
- Improved guides for setting up the methodology in both new and existing projects, ensuring a seamless integration process.
- Updated site configuration and links to point to the new repository and live site.

site/src/content/docs/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Set up AI Context Docs Lifecycle in 5 minutes with help from your AI assistant
head: []
---

Let your AI agent set up the methodology for you. Works with Cursor, Claude Code, or any AI assistant.

## Step 1: Copy the Setup Prompt

Open your AI coding assistant and paste this:

```
Set up AI Context Docs Lifecycle for this project:

1. Create folders: .cursor/rules, docs/specs/_archive, docs/features, docs/decisions
2. Create AGENTS.md with: quick start commands, tech stack table, file organization
3. Create .cursor/rules/00-index.mdc with empty rules table
4. Create docs/INDEX.md, docs/TASKS.md

Use actual values from package.json and the codebase - no placeholders.

Reference: https://sergiusavva.github.io/ai-context-docs-lifecycle/templates/agents-md/
```

That's it! Your AI will analyze your project and create the files with real values.

## Step 2: What AI Should Discover

Before generating files, AI should find these in your project:

| Look For | Where | Use In |
|----------|-------|--------|
| Project type | `packages/`, `apps/`, `services/`, workspace configs | Structure decision |
| Install/run commands | `package.json` scripts, `Makefile` | Quick Start section |
| Dependencies | `package.json`, `requirements.txt` | Tech Stack table |
| Code structure | `src/`, `app/`, `lib/` folders | File Organization |
| Test framework | `jest.config`, `pytest.ini`, test files | Testing rules |
| Existing patterns | Repeated code structures | Key Patterns section |

### Monorepo Detection

| Marker | Project Type |
|--------|--------------|
| `packages/` or `apps/` folder | Package monorepo |
| `pnpm-workspace.yaml`, `turbo.json`, `nx.json`, `lerna.json` | Package monorepo |
| `services/` folder | Service monorepo |
| `docker-compose.yml` with multiple services | Service monorepo |
| None of above | Single app |

## Step 3: Verify Setup

After AI completes, check these files exist and contain **real values**:

### Single App Structure

```
your-project/
├── AGENTS.md                    # ✅ Has actual tech stack, real commands
├── .cursor/rules/
│   └── 00-index.mdc            # ✅ Lists rules for YOUR stack
└── docs/
    ├── INDEX.md                # ✅ Links to YOUR docs
    ├── TASKS.md                # ✅ Ready for tasks
    ├── specs/                  # ✅ For future specs
    ├── features/               # ✅ For feature docs
    └── decisions/              # ✅ For ADRs
```

### Monorepo Structure (Package or Service)

```
your-monorepo/
├── AGENTS.md                    # ✅ Root overview, links to all packages
├── .cursor/rules/
│   └── 00-index.mdc            # ✅ Shared rules for all packages
├── packages/                    # or services/
│   ├── web/
│   │   └── AGENTS.md           # ✅ Web-specific context
│   └── api/
│       └── AGENTS.md           # ✅ API-specific context
└── docs/
    ├── INDEX.md                # ✅ Links to all docs
    ├── TASKS.md                # ✅ Tracks work across packages
    ├── specs/
    ├── features/
    └── decisions/
```

### Quick Verification

Ask your AI:
```
Verify the AI Context Docs Lifecycle setup:
1. Does AGENTS.md contain real project commands that work?
2. Does the Tech Stack table reflect actual dependencies?
3. Are the Key Patterns based on actual code in this repo?
4. (For monorepos) Does each package/service have its own AGENTS.md?
```

## Step 4: Start Building

Setup complete! Now use the [Development Workflow](/workflow/) for day-to-day prompts:

- **Before building** — Create specs and feature docs
- **While building** — AI follows your rules automatically
- **After completing** — Archive specs, update docs

→ [View full workflow prompts](/workflow/)

---

## If AI Can't Fetch URLs

Some AI assistants can't access web content. Use this alternative:

```
Apply the AI Context Docs Lifecycle methodology to this project.
I'll provide the reference content below.

First, analyze this project's tech stack and patterns.
Then create the structure based on what I paste.
```

Then paste the relevant sections from:
- [Methodology](/methodology/) — core concepts
- [Project Structure](/templates/project-structure/) — folder layout
- [AGENTS.md Template](/templates/agents-md/) — root context format
- [Cursor Rules](/templates/cursor-rules/) — rule file format

---

## Common Prompts for Daily Use

Once set up, use these prompts for day-to-day development:

| Task | Prompt |
|------|--------|
| **New feature** | "Create PRD-lite spec for [feature] in docs/specs/" |
| **Start building** | "Implement [feature] following docs/specs/[feature].md" |
| **Track progress** | "Update TASKS.md with current progress" |
| **Record decision** | "Create ADR for choosing [X] over [Y]" |
| **New pattern** | "Add rule for [pattern] to .cursor/rules/" |
| **Complete feature** | "Archive spec and update docs for [feature]" |

See the full [Prompt Library](/prompts/) for more.

---

## Alternative: Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

### Create folders

```bash
mkdir -p .cursor/rules
mkdir -p docs/specs/_archive
mkdir -p docs/features
mkdir -p docs/decisions
```

### Create AGENTS.md

```bash
touch AGENTS.md
```

Copy the template from [AGENTS.md template](/templates/agents-md/) and customize.

### Create rule index

```bash
touch .cursor/rules/00-index.mdc
```

Copy from [Cursor Rules template](/templates/cursor-rules/).

### Create docs index

```bash
touch docs/INDEX.md docs/TASKS.md
```

---

## New vs Existing Projects

| Scenario | Guide |
|----------|-------|
| Starting fresh | [New Project Guide](/guides/new-project/) |
| Adding to existing code | [Existing Project Guide](/guides/existing-project/) |

The key difference: for existing projects, document what IS, not what should be. Your rules should capture existing patterns, not impose new ones.

---

## Next Steps

- Follow the [Development Workflow](/workflow/) for day-to-day prompts
- Read the [full methodology](/methodology/) to understand the three pillars
- Browse [templates](/templates/) to see all available files
- Check [guides](/guides/) for detailed walkthroughs
